If you are using Claude code and you're
not yet using Carl, you're giving
directions to Claude to every city in
the country when it only needs
directions to get to the grocery store.
And the more directions you give it, the
worse it drives. In this video, I'm
going to show you exactly what's
happening and how to fix it using this
awesome plugin called Carl.
>> Carl, that kills people.
>> Oh. Oh.
>> Be amazed and take a look. This is my
claw.md file. all 733 lines. Build
standards, agent team setups, plug-in
rules, content strategies, operating
principles. It's everything about me.
And here's the thing, every single one
of these rules is good. I wrote them all
because they matter. The problem isn't
what's in here. The problem is all 733
lines are loaded into every single
prompt. For example, I ask Claude to fix
a bug and it's pulling context on
content strategy. or I ask it to write a
YouTube script and it's pulling context
about get work trees. That's like asking
your city to fix a pothole and they
start by reviewing the entire federal
budget. The pothole doesn't get fixed
and they burn through a ton of money,
aka our tokens. Here's what most people
don't realize. Claude has 1 million
tokens of context per each window. Your
claw.md eats up about 15 to 20% of your
context window before you even message
anything. And that's not just fewer
tokens for your work, it's worse output.
As context fills up, Claude's output
quality degrades, especially attention
to early instructions. So when Claude
gets irrelevant instructions, it doesn't
just ignore them. They actively dilute
its attention throughout the whole
conversation. The model is trying to
follow this when it only needs 28 rules.
You're burning tokens this way. But
also, it's not even just a token
problem. It's a signal to noise problem.
And don't worry, there's a fix. Before I
introduce the solution, aka Carl, if
you're getting value out of this, hit
the like button and subscribe because I
do claude workflow reviews like this
every single week. This is Carl Context
augmentation reinforcement layer built
by my partner Chris Kaylor here at CNC
Strategic. And if you're in the cloud
code space at all, you should definitely
remember this name. Here's the idea in
plain English. Instead of one massive
claw.md file that loads everything every
single time, Carl will break up your
rules into separate domains. Small
separate groups of rules that are
organized by what they do. You would
configure the global domain for rules
that should always be applied. Universal
rules like your name, your coding
standards, your communication style. For
me, it's nine rules. Everything else
only loads when Carl sees that the
prompt is relevant. You mention YouTube.
Claude will intelligently use Claw to
detect that it should use the content
rules. You mentioned TypeScript. It's
going to pull the dev domain. The rest
will stay out of our way throughout our
conversation. I'm going to show you how
this works live. Notice how the Claude
MD was trimmed from 734 lines down to
153 lines. And it'll organize my entire
structure into separate domains and
strategic star commands. And I'm going
to show you how I use it in a real
conversation. I'm going to boot open a
new session of Claude and I'm going to
ask it to write me a YouTube script
about Carl. So notice how Claude is
exploring the Carl system and it's going
to look for specific keywords that are
going to match the domain
configurations. And in this case, it's
only going to load my global settings
and my content settings. And we're only
going to load 28 rules rather than 700
plus lines. Carl sees YouTube and script
and matches it with the content domain.
19 rules about my voice, my audience,
hoax psychology, and content strategy,
plus the nine global rules. So, 28 in
total. And look what it didn't load.
Anything about LinkedIn, dev, clients,
agents, and everything else that I had
structured in my MD. So, it's done
researching. Now, watch what happens
when I switch context. I'm asking it to
do some dev work. Now, in the same way,
Carl's going to search for those
keywords and match it with my dev
domain. So, notice it pulled the dev
domain because it matched the keywords.
Now, in the same way, if I open up a new
context window and I ask it that same
prompt, it's only going to pull the
domain for dev and the global rules, and
it'll only pull 23 of the rules. So,
we're getting laser focused development.
Same project, same Carl installation,
two totally different rule sets based
off of what I've actually asked for.
That's the key difference in using Carl.
Domains are automatic. Carl reads your
prompt and figures what to load. But
sometimes you want explicit control on
those rules. That's why Carl gives us
star commands. These are the particular
star commands that I've created using
Carl. One for dev, review, brief, plan.
So if I use star brief, I'm going to get
bullets only. It's going to cut all the
fluff. So let's say you type in star
brief. Claude would switch to bullet
points only. No paragraph, no fluff,
only answers. Or let's say I did star
dev. I would get code over explanation.
Show me the fix don't tell me about it
type conversation or explicit rules
using the star plan command. Look at the
difference. Same prompt, one without the
star brief command and one with it.
Without the command, I get a whole novel
when I asked about my dev rules. With
it, I get clear-cut bullet points, a
simple cheat sheet. Domains are
autopilot. Star commands are manual
override. You're not hoping Claude reads
your mind. You're telling it exactly how
to respond. Now, here's something most
claw.md structures completely ignore.
What happens when your session gets
longer? Your context window fills up
over time. At the start of the session,
you got plenty of room. Claude is pretty
comprehensive at this point, but very
quickly, it starts running short. And if
Claude is giving you three paragraph
explanations when context is running
low, that's a huge problem. Carl handles
this automatically with context
brackets. And there's three levels to
the logic. When you're fresh, you've got
room. Claude will go pretty deep with
you. When context starts to fill up and
Carl sees that we're in a moderate
bracket, Claude will switch to a more
concise style of communication
automatically. Now, when you're
depleted, it's going to turn into
survival mode. Code only, no
explanations, only if it's asked. It
will now even start to speak out loud to
remind itself of its prime directive and
urge you to create a handoff document if
you're not using a special plugin like
GSD or whatnot. Carl does what Congress
won't. It cuts the bloat automatically
when resources run low. No vote
required. This is the Carl manifest. All
controlled by one file. Each domain has
four fields. State, it's either active
or it's not. Recall, the keyword that
triggered the domain. Exclude keywords
that prevent it from loading even if
there's a match. And always on. Set this
to true and it loads every session like
global settings. The beauty is adding
more domains doesn't slow Claude down or
Carl. Carl just scans your prompt,
checks the manifest, and loads what
matches. 10 domains, 20 domains, it
doesn't matter. Only the relevant ones
are going to activate. Let me show you
how to install it. It's actually very
simple. And the command is going to be
below in the description, but you're
just going to put in npxcarl core. Click
enter. Choose global. You would choose
yes. And that's it. your manifest,
global rules, commands folder, context
brackets, all under 30 seconds. Just
restart Claude and Carl is active. So no
API keys, no configuration files, no
Docker, no build step, just one command.
And here's the side by side. Without
Carl, we're loading all lines of the
claw.md. And with it, we're segregating
all those rules with domains and start
commands. Massive context consumed from
the beginning versus minimal context
consumed. Using Carl, we're getting
generic instructions for every prompt.
The signal is just going to be buried in
noise. With Carl and just the 28 rules
loaded with an individual prompt, we're
getting targeted intelligence for
exactly what we're doing. And it auto
adapts as your session continues on.
Same project, same claude, drastically
different performance. Here's the thing
people get wrong about AI tools. They
think the goal is to make Claude
smarter, giving it more information,
more context, more rules. It's not.
Claude is already super intelligent. The
goal is to make Claude more focused.
Carl doesn't necessarily add
intelligence. It's removing noise. And
in every system I've ever built, in
business, in automation, in life,
focused is going to be smart every
single time. If you want to try Carl,
grab the command from below. It's free
and it's open source. If you want to go
deeper on claude code workflows, I have
a school community that you can join
from the description below. I share
everything that works for me and I
recently have a promotion. There's no
pressure, but as a premium member, you
get access to my full SAS building
system from A to Z using something
called GSD, another Claw Code plugin. If
you want access to that video, it'll be
linked somewhere above here. And the
premium membership is only available for
a short time as I'm building out the
premium courses. But seriously, unlike
the US government, you don't get to just
print more tokens when you run out. So,
stop wasting the ones that you have.
I'll see you guys on the next one.